# HW 2 Challenge Questions
1. See figure
2. Figure 2.2 of the HW2 modeling figures shows that in the homogeneous (K is constant everywhere), the flux is a steady 2.00*10^-3 m/day. The slight oscillations are an anomaly of the coarse grid resolution. In the real world where our “grid boxes” are actually infinitesimally small, these oscillations in flux do not exist. The heterogeneous model, with K 10x higher in columns 11 and 12, show constant flux, except for column 11, where flux increases 6x, and then box 13, where flux is less than the ~0.002 m / day. Again, I believe this is just due to the constraints of our coarse-resolution model. 

3.  The flux must be 1D because there is only a west-east (x-direction) head gradient shown in Figures 2 and 3. For any point, the head north and south of that point is equal, and if there is no change in head in that direction, then there is no flow in that direction. 
4. The lower-K values have a greater impact on the effective K of the system than the higher-K values, due to the way the harmonic average equation works, with small numbers in a denominator having a large impact on the dependent variable. The homogeneous model with the box of low-K is harder to develop a direct solution for because the flow is now 2-dimensional. Unlike the other heterogeneous model with only the columns of different K, is this case, there actually is a head gradient in the north-south direction. As water always flows form high head to low head, it will now move diagonally across the space in order to find the path of least resistance. Adding another direction vector into the calculations makes it much more complex. 
5. A type I boundary condition is constant head. A type II boundary condition is constant flow, which is when the change in head relative to the direction normal to the boundary is constant, relative to x, y, z, and t. Figure 2.1 shows that the change in head moving from west to east is constant. If initial head conditions were set to 15m (west) and 10m (east), but then for the boundary condition, flow is made constant at ~.0021 m/day, then you’d get the same result. The third model is fundamentally different from the other two, because the change in head is not constant. 

Glossary Questions: 
1.	MODFLOW is an antiquated program created by the USGS in the late 20th century. Packages are added onto the core program, to simulate additional parameters. Examples are a package that accounts for evapotranspiration, or the recharge from a losing stream. The inputs to a MODFLOW model are text documents that are edited with user-specified values for parameters of interest. 
2.	In a steady state system (where flux is constant), darcy’s law says that head gradient and hydraulic conductivity are inversely proportional. 
3.	A model node is the center of a cell. A cell is a box. Head is defined at the exact center of the box. Anywhere else within the box, the head could be different. A proper that is defined the same for the entire cell is, for example, hydraulic conductivity. 


4.	A type-1 boundary condition means head is constant at the spatial boundaries of the model. For example, a very large lake above an aquifer could be a constant-head boundary, since the water level of the lake is relatively constant. A type-2 boundary condition is when flux is constant at the boundary, but head isn’t. A lake with a water level that changes could be considered type 2 boundary. A stream could be a type-2 boundary if it’s gain from (or loss to) the aquifer is known. If it’s a very large stream with a constant stream stage, it could also be considered a type-1 boundary. 
